---
title: 4WNOA
layout: frontpage
---

## Scientific Rationale 

The fourth Workshop on Numerical and Observational Astrophysics organized by
the Numerical Astrophysics Group of IAFE is framed at the dawn of the era of
the so-called "Big Data". The unprecedented amount of high precision data that
are being obtained, and will be obtained in the very near future, throughout
the new generation of telescopes, will give us a new vision of our Galaxy and
the early Universe: a detailed description of stellar populations (RAVE, SEGUE,
LAMOST, GAIA), interstellar and intergalactic media (ALMA, GASKAP), the
chemical and dynamic properties of galaxies at high redshifts (ALMA, ELT,
LSST). The LSST by itself will gather in one day of operation the total volume
of data obtained by the Sloan Digital Sky Survey. In this context, it is
essential to develop new tools for processing and analysis. Numerical
simulations provide the necessary nexus between the theoretical models for
structure formation and the observational data. The huge range of scales
involved has made the formation of structure one of the great challenges in
scientific computing, driving the need for new and more efficient codes, as
well as bigger and faster computational resources. We aim at providing the
opportunity for young scientists and PhD students to interact with leading
scientists in areas related to formation and evolution of galaxies, both from
the observational an theoretical point of view. The meeting will include
extended talks that will provide a detailed overview of the state of the art
regarding modelling and data processing tools.

## Local Organizing Committee
- Sol Rosito
- Pedro Cataldi
- Lucas Bignone
- Patricia Tissera
- Susana Pedrosa
- Mar√≠a Celeste Artale

## Past Editions

[Third Workshop on Numerical and Observational Astrophysics: Linking the Local Universe to the Early One](http://www.iafe.uba.ar/AstroNum/html/workshop2014/index.html) | Buenos Aires, 17 - 21 November 2014
[Second Workshop on Numerical and Observational Astrophysics: From the First Structures to the Universe Today](http://www.iafe.uba.ar/AstroNum/html/workshop2011/w2011.html) | Buenos Aires, 14 - 18 November 2011
